- [soldiers scream]
- [dramatic music]
- [gun fires]
- [soldier screams]
[sword whooshes]
I saw Makee on Sanctuary.
- Makee's dead.
- I know.
I shot her myself.
[Ackerson] Your account
of events on Sanctuary
has proven dubious.
I know how you assholes think.
I was you once.
There's other things to be,
other ways to live.
- [Riz grunting]
- [John] Don't you quit.
Get up.
I know the location
of Catherine Halsey.
It's not about the money
for you, is it?
It's about what she did to ya.
Soren never would've
left any of you behind.
[Ackerson]
You're under arrest.
[Woman] Ruby Ann
bought Soren's crew.
[Kessler] When my dad comes
back, he'll protect us.
He's not coming back!
I want to introduce
you to someone.
This is Julia.
She'll be your attendant.
Where is she?
Cortana, she's secure.
Have you made any progress
with the problem I gave you?
All of my simulations
returned the same result,
regardless of any action taken.
So there's nothing to be done.
I was scanning the band,
and I heard something
in the interference.
[Elite roars]
[John] You heard a message.
This will happen again.
I want you to post your evidence
of the Covenant's
other activities.
Press the button,
and I'll find you.
This new guy, he's got
us escorting a tech team
on some fix-it mission.
If you're sending Cobalt
to another comms array,
you better tell them
to expect the Covenant.
I cannot authorize Silver Team
to perform combat operations.
[computer beeping]
[rockets whooshing]
- We're cleared for combat?
- Affirmative.
[Kai] What exactly
is the mission?
The Covenant's on Reach.
[screaming]
- [door crashes open]
- [sinister noises]
[wind whistling]
Seven clicks to target.
[faint creaking sound]
Riz?
[Riz] Cobalt Three, Romeo,
this is Silver Three, over.
[static crackling]
Any Cobalt element,
this is Silver Three.
We are en route to your
position, how copy?
- [static crackles]
- [John] Try the relay.
[Riz] Visegr치d Relay,
this is Silver Three.
- Radio check, over.
- [static crackling]
[Kai] We getting
air support for this?
[Riz] Visegr치d Relay,
this is Silver Three.
[Kai] Where is everybody?
- Over.
- We're on our own.
FLEETCOM doesn't believe
the Covenant's on Reach.
They just think
Cobalt's missing.
This is a search
and rescue mission,
but we need to be prepared
for the possibility
that Cobalt ran into something.
[Vannak] Something Covenant?
[John] Command thinks
this planet's untouchable.
They haven't
seen what we've seen,
and they don't
know what we know.
I'll tell you this,
we will have contact.
Until then, it's just us.
[Kai] This seem right to you?
[Vannak grunts softly]
[static crackling]
[somber choral music]
[finger tapping]
[doors slam]
[footsteps]
[distant, echoing clank]
[clanking footsteps]
[John] See if you
can get the power up.
[Riz] Copy, Chief.
[Vannak] Left in a hurry.
No sign of Cobalt,
no breach marks at the--
[pulse blaring]
[static crackling]
[garbled voices]
[thunderous rumble]
[sudden silence]
[Kai] What the hell was that?
[Riz] I don't know, I've
never heard anything like it.
[John] I have, on Sanctuary.
[heavy clank]
[steady pounding on doors]
[Vannak] You believe him now?
[steady pounding continues]
[finger tapping]
[finger tapping;
distant pounding]
[static crackling]
[steady pounding;
nearby static crackle]
[distorted audio]
[Briggs]
Stand down!
Tell your team to lower
their weapons, Master Chief.
[Vannak] What is this?
- Chief?
- Now.
I can't even describe
the amount of shit you're in.
[Kai] I can't even describe
what's about to
happen to your face.
[Vannak] Who the hell
are these people?
I carry priority
orders from FLEETCOM.
- What orders?
- To bring you in.
[John] You are impeding
my mission, move.
There is no mission.
- You stole a Condor.
- What?
- Falsified a flight plan.
- What is she talking about?
You're not even authorized to
be in those suits right now,
let alone pointing
a gun at my face.
So stand down, or
we will engage you.
[Riz] Good luck with that.
[Vannak] Chief, what do we do?
[John] Where is Cobalt Team?
- Last chance.
- John.
[John] Tell me where Cobalt is,
or I'm going through that door.
[Briggs] I gave you an order.
[Vannak] What's the call?
Chief?
[steady pounding on doors]
[Briggs] Ah, stand
down, do not fire!
- Chief.
- They were here.
I can prove it.
[Kai sighs]
[Kai] Not like this.
[somber music]
We were a thousand feet up,
wind whipping, cables groaning.
Couldn't have been more
than two degrees up there.
- January, you know?
- Yeah.
And I can't hold it anymore.
I'm strapped in the
harness, and I look down,
I tell Arthur,
I say, "I gotta go."
[laughs]
What's he gonna do?
You peed on Uncle Arthur?
I peed on him.
What could he do?
Okay, lift your chin up, yeah.
What the hell's wrong with you?
This shit is funny.
Well, I've heard it before.
What difference does that make?
You're supposed to damn well
laugh when I repeat myself.
I'm the one that's senile.
I don't know what you're
complaining about.
I'm not complaining.
Well, I mean, you want to.
What is it?
Your secret's safe with me.
Is this about that thing
that you weren't
supposed to tell me?
You weren't supposed
to remember.
I don't choose what I forget.
I might have to go away.
Where?
And I can't take you with me.
[somber music]
- I know.
- I want to, but I can't.
You see that bridge?
[Ackerson] I can't stop it, Dad.
You know who built that bridge?
It's not up to me.
- It's too late.
- I built that bridge.
Me and your Uncle Arthur.
The day it was finished,
I walked across it with
your mum, and your sister.
She couldn't have
been more than 3.
Held her little hand.
She wouldn't let me pick her up.
She wanted to walk
the whole way.
Yeah.
[chuckles]
All right.
So when's she coming?
Your sister.
She's gone, Dad.
Julia's gone.
Mum, too.
Oh.
- It's just you and me.
- I know that.
I damn well know that.
Don't think that
I don't know that.
Oh, sorry.
[Ackerson] It's okay.
Sorry, I just, sorry,
I just get confused sometimes.
It's okay.
Doesn't mean that I
don't know what's real.
See you tomorrow, okay?
Okay.
- Promise me...
- Yeah, I promise.
No, promise me you won't
let them take me alive.
[Keyes] Absent without leave,
unauthorized deployment
of weapons systems,
violation of,
I mean, what do you even call
stealing a goddamn Condor?
Sir.
I'm looking at 15
infractions of the UCMJ,
one of which involves
pointing a loaded weapon
in the face of an officer?
I did that, sir.
Sir, I had credible information.
You had a feeling.
You had a delusion.
You went outside the chain.
Didn't ya?
Yes, sir.
Effective immediately,
Silver Team is suspended
from combat operations,
'til further notice.
Admiral Keyes, I know--
You know nothing because
it's not your job to know.
It's mine.
Your job is to follow orders.
Cobalt was at Visegr치d, sir.
What's that?
Four days ago, Cobalt
was deployed to Aktis IV.
No, this isn't right.
I saw Cobalt's flight plan.
- [Vannak] Chief.
- I saw it.
They changed it!
[somber music]
I know what I saw.
John-117 is relieved
from active duty,
and will be confined to barracks
'til such a time as he clears
a psychiatric evaluation.
A what?
117 will submit
to neurochemical--
Is this you, or
is this Ackerson?
John, stop.
Rack your suits, dismissed.
Did you even try to defend us?
I'm the only reason you're
not facing a court-martial.
You lied to us.
I told you what you needed to
know to complete the mission.
- There was no mission.
- Cobalt was at Visegr치d.
- Chief, can I talk to you?
- This is ONI, all of it.
- This is Ackerson.
- Come on, Chief.
- Why do you think he's here?
- I can't listen to this.
Where do you think you're going?
Vannak!
- You are out of control.
- What?
You're not thinking
straight, you're erratic.
Since when do you
question my judgment?
Since you started
seeing dead people.
I didn't tell anyone you said
you saw Makee on Sanctuary.
John, I'm trying to help you.
I'm trying to talk to you,
as your friend.
I don't need a friend,
Petty Officer, I need a Spartan.
Why don't you try doing that?
125, you are not dismissed!
[somber music]
[indistinct chatter]
[man] Hey!
[liquid burbling]
[suspenseful music]
[Person] Who is she?
[Laera gasps]
[both grunting]
[knife zings]
- [knife clatters]
- [Laera coughing]
[Laera panting]
- Kwan?
- Shh!
[nearby voices]
What're you doing?
- You're in danger.
- I can see that.
Not from Ruby Ann.
I'm talking about your crew.
[eerie music]
Ruby Ann bought them off.
- They got rid of Soren.
- What?
- You're next.
- Is Soren--
- I don't know.
You have to get Kessler and go.
[imitating gunfire]
- Come on, man, I got you.
- Did not.
Are you kidding me,
at this range?
- Come on, man.
- It's Master Chief.
[Antares] Yeah,
it's Master Chief,
in eight different pieces.
[Kessler] Nope, nope,
you missed.
[Antares] Fine.
[Laera]
What are you doing here?
Playing.
We have good news.
Ship's fixed.
We can leave.
You said it would
take a couple of days.
It's Soren.
- We worked all night.
- Come here.
- We're not finished.
- Kessler.
[Kessler sighs]
Time to go.
Can I come?
- Yeah.
- No.
Everybody goes.
We're all family.
You go ahead, I'll
meet you at the ship.
We can wait.
Don't trouble
yourselves, I can manage.
- Carina.
- It's no trouble.
[Antares] Carina.
Come on.
[tense music]
[ominous music]
Get your things.
[Kessler] Kwan,
you can come out.
[emotional music]
[John groans]
So, when you guys joined ONI,
is this what you had in mind?
We don't like this any
more than you do, Chief.
[John] If you get any closer,
we're gonna have to
talk about our feelings.
[Guard] It's just a routine
psych eval, Chief.
[doors swoosh]
[doors close firmly]
[elevator whirring]
- Sorry.
- What?
[guards grunting]
[tense music]
- [door clicks]
- [pleasant music]
- Hi.
- Hey, Riz.
They canceled our training.
I was sitting in my bunk, so--
[Louis] So you decided
to come by here?
Yeah.
[food sizzling]
[Louis] Look who I found.
Hey, join us for dinner.
There goes date night.
Oh, I'm sorry.
No, no, no, no,
don't listen to him.
His idea of date night ends
with him falling asleep
listening to the sat-link,
and me doing the dishes.
[Louis] Babe, you don't do
the dishes, the machine does.
Someone has to press
the button, come here.
You know, I hope you're hungry.
I can give you some
treatment after we eat, yeah?
Oh, I didn't really
come here for that.
Everything okay?
Um, I guess I just
started walking,
but it turns out I don't
really have anywhere to go.
Oh, for God's sake,
you're making me sad.
Now we have to drink, sit.
It looks beautiful.
Thank you.
Louis' health?
What are we drinking?
Your favorite.
Talk to me.
The other day, you said
there were other ways to live,
other things to be.
That's right.
Like what?
[soft chuckle]
We didn't know the
mission wasn't authorized.
Me, Riz, Vannak.
We were in the dark.
And for the record,
Chief was just doing what
he thought was right.
Well, that's what concerns me.
Look, I appreciate
you coming down here
to advocate for your CO.
If the Chief went
outside the chain,
there needs to be
discipline, I get that.
But we're not built
to sit around and wait.
It's not good for us.
We need to be in the fight.
I'm not gonna
change my decision.
I'm not asking you to.
We are at war, sir.
We're still the best
weapons you have.
Are you suggesting
I deploy Silver Team
without its leader?
No, sir.
Just me.
Temporarily,
'til John's cleared.
And if he's not?
He's the Chief.
Twenty minutes ago,
John incapacitated the soldiers
assigned to monitor him,
and escaped this facility.
What?
[Ackerson] Did he share
his plans with you?
Plans, what?
- What plans?
- Where is he?
Oh, I don't know.
Last time we spoke,
I asked you if you had concerns
about John's mental
stability, and you said---
- That was before.
- Before what?
How long has this been going on?
- I don't know.
- Since Cortana was removed,
or since John interacted
with the Covenant agent?
I reviewed the file.
What are you implying?
You and I both know
he's not himself.
Look, Kai, I, I want to
share something with you,
and this isn't me speaking
as your superior, this is...
sometimes people
don't get better.
He just needs time.
Sometimes, we do more
damage by holding on.
I can't stay and watch him.
[Ackerson] I know.
Tell me what to do.
[Kwan] Sometimes it takes weeks
to get here, sometimes months.
Some never get here at all.
We left Madrigal
with four ships.
We arrived with one.
You see that?
That's where they process
you before you're indentured.
It's not free.
Nothing is free.
I'm sorry.
For what
happened to you.
Don't be.
Most people have it worse,
and sometimes I
think I deserve it.
I'm being punished.
- Don't talk like that.
- It's true.
I'm not supposed to be
here, this isn't my life.
I failed my responsibility
to my people and my planet.
You can't blame
yourself for that.
I'm Kwan Ha.
My family protected Madrigal
for more generations
than anyone can count.
And when it was my turn...
[alarm blaring]
[Laera] Kwan?
[voices shouting]
It's time to go.
We can blend in.
We have to move now.
- [radios crackling]
- [voices shouting]
[suspenseful music]
Take it off, they'll notice you.
[engine rumbling]
- Are we hiding?
- No.
- Where are we going?
- To get your dad back.
Are we scared?
No. Stay close.
[suspenseful music]
[Kwan] Keep your head down.
Don't look.
[suspenseful music continues]
[man]
Rising forward.
[man 2]
Keep moving!
[suspenseful music continues]
- Are we scared now?
- Strap in.
[suspenseful music continues]
- [ship engine blasting]
- [suspenseful music continues]
[dismayed shouting]
Everything's gonna be okay, Kes.
We're gonna get your dad now.
- Told you.
- [suspenseful music continues]
- [Laera] Oh, no, no.
[Kwan] No, we're
not gonna make it!
[Laera] Hold on!
- [ship engine blasting]
- [suspenseful music continues]
- Mom!
Mom!
- [Laera] Damn it!
- [suspenseful music continues]
- [ship engine powers down]
What are you doing?
Wait for my move,
then get Kessler out of here.
- Use the hatch.
- What about you?
It's worth enough
to get both of you
- on that transport.
- No.
Promise me you'll
get him on that ship.
Promise me you'll protect him.
- [banging on door]
- [Antares] Laera!
- No, they'll kill you.
- Mom?
[gentle music]
- [Antares] Open up, Laera!
- [gentle music continues]
- I'll see you soon.
[banging on door]
[Antares] Don't make
me torch this door.
There she is.
Smart girl, this
could have got messy.
- Laera, I'm sorry, I never--
- Give it up, it's not personal.
It is!
- [blows landing]
- [fighters grunting]
[Briggs] We found
Cobalt Team 80 meters
from the relay.
They were in the trees.
We observed plasma
scarring in the area.
I don't think they
saw it coming.
[Keyes] Thank you, Captain.
[Briggs] How would you
like to handle this?
The bodies, sir?
[Keyes] There are no bodies.
- I would list it as MIA.
- Sir.
- Let's go.
- [door closes]
You all right, Admiral?
No.
I understand.
It's a tragedy.
- Did you know...
- Pardon me?
Did you know that Master Chief's
suspicions were valid
when you sent our soldiers
out into a hostile--
I resent the implication.
I want to know what you knew,
and I want to know
when you knew it.
- Just calm down.
- Calm down?
The Covenant is on this planet!
It was a matter of time.
This day was inevitable.
It's mathematics, Admiral.
In every analysis,
every simulation--
This is not
a goddamn simulation!
Right, it's not.
But it's my job to
decide what to do next.
We have to alert command.
I assure you, your superiors
are already fully aware.
[scoffs]
We need to initiate
the Winter Contingency.
Begin immediate
civilian evacuation!
It's over, Admiral.
We don't get to win this one.
If you send out
an evacuation alert,
we'll have chaos, panic.
The Covenant element hit
Cobalt Team days ago.
We can only assume the Covenant
fleet isn't far behind.
There is a plan in place,
but it's going to require
some hard choices.
I need to know that
you're with me.
[tense music]
- We're not gonna fight.
- I didn't say that.
We're going to fight, we're
just not going to win.
[tense music continues]
- This is Reach.
- I know.
Home to millions of people--
And we will save what we can.
- This is my home!
- It is my home too!
Don't think for a second this
doesn't cost me everything.
[tense music continues]
- but this is reality, Admiral.
- [tense music continues]
We can either face it or we die.
[tense music continues]
Essential assets are
being transported
off the planet as we speak.
Get your things together.
- Tell no one.
- [tense music continues]
I won't run.
You'll fight another
day when we can win.
[tense music continues]
Admiral Keyes,
can I count on you?
[tense music continues]
- Go fuck yourself.
- [tense music continues]
[Laera] Where's my husband?
- Is he alive?
- Antares?
- It's not too late, Antares.
- Yeah, it is.
[ship engines power up]
Go on, Kwan.
[tense music]
[voice clears throat]
[guard]
Halt.
Wait.
Where's my mom?
- [tense music continues]
- [ship engine powers up]
- Will I see her soon?
- [tense music continues]
- Tell the truth.
- Yes.
- [tense music continues]
- Best in the city. You want?
- No.
- Try it.
- No, thank you.
[diners chatter]
You've always had this problem.
You are not in control.
You mean not controllable.
We had an agreement.
You were to bring me
information, not attention.
I have information.
But I wanna know what you're
gonna do with it first.
We have a common
goal to win the war.
Don't mistake me for a friend.
- Okay.
- [diners chatter]
I believe the Covenant is here.
- In the ramen?
- On Reach.
You're serious.
A team of Spartans went missing.
FLEETCOM is pretending they
don't know what happened.
And do you think it's
the Covenant that--
I know it's the Covenant.
I suggest you consider
what you're saying.
That's all I've been doing.
I've been thinking it.
I've been saying it.
And nobody seems
to be listening.
- ONI knows!
- Keep your voice down.
[low] ONI knows.
They're covering it up.
Why would they do that?
The ONI protects itself.
Make them your enemy,
and it won't matter that
you're Master Chief,
you will cease to be useful.
And when you cease
to be useful, that--
- No, you're not listening,
- Why do you fight, John?
- What?
- You fight, why?
To win, to defend our home.
To preserve humanity.
No, you fight
because I tell you to.
You are a soldier, be a soldier.
This is what you will do.
Go back there.
Go back to FLEETCOM.
Kiss whatever ass
you have to kiss.
You go do your time in the brig.
Smile.
You'll never speak of it again.
They will probably
give you another medal.
[chair scrapes]
[tense music]
I need to know we
understand each other.
When exactly did you
leave ONI, Admiral?
If you walk out of here,
I won't be able to help you.
- You never left.
- Stand down, John.
I don't think so.
[tense music continues]
[Ackerson] I never understood
how fragile they really are.
Fragile?
Yes, because you
made them that way.
No.
You took them when
they were children.
You conditioned them.
And then when they were old
enough to think for themselves,
you made sure they never would.
You put in those pellets.
So they never had to feel desire
or ambition or preference.
So they would never choose
anyone other than you.
And that's it, isn't it?
- Why are you here?
- I just came to say goodbye.
I'm leaving.
And I, I suppose
I wanted you to know
that your efforts weren't
in vain, Catherine,
you won't be here to see it.
But these things that you
made, broken as they may be,
they're going to
become the foundation
for something extraordinary.
And I hope that gives you
some comfort in the end.
[gentle music]
Don't you want to
know how she died?
[gentle music continues]
What?
Julia. Did you think I didn't
know who she was?
I remember all of them.
Especially your sister.
She was... she was so curious.
She used to ask
so many questions.
But you never know
who's going to make it through
the augmentation and who isn't.
- And she didn't.
- [gentle music continues]
- No.
She was dying.
She didn't know why.
She couldn't understand.
I told her more or less
what you just told me.
That even though
she wouldn't see it,
she would be this small part
of the next step forward.
I don't know if she understood.
She was so scared.
But I do know that she
loved you very much.
And I hope that gives
you some comfort.
[gentle music continues]
[soft chuckle]
Yeah.
[dramatic exhalation]
I thought you were leaving.
I didn't want you to be alone.
- I'm not a monster.
- [gentle music continues]
[tense music]
[Ackerson] I'll let
you two get reacquainted.
[tense music continues]
[steady, metallic pounding]
You are making it very
difficult for me to help you.
- Boss, we're exiting slip space.
- I heard you.
I let them have their way...
[dramatic chuckle]
...you'd already be dead.
We were good to you, Antares.
Oh. Well.
Thank you for
allowing me to barely exist
and to scrape out a meager
living split four ways
with these bozos while you
and your husband spent
- all that Madrigal money on--
- What are you talking about?
Don't play stupid!
I know you're not.
I can usually reason
with my husband,
but when he finds
out about this--
I'm not really worried.
Last I see Soren,
his was on a prison
ship headed for Reach.
So settle in.
It could be a while.
- You're a son of a bitch.
- No, I'm an opportunist.
[distant metallic clanking]
Now, where is it?
[distant clanking continues]
Would somebody please
deal with that?
I can't hear myself think.
[distant clanking continues]
Thank you.
I don't know what
Ruby Ann promised you,
but you are getting played,
Antares, and it's not too late.
Stop, please.
Soren tells you everything.
You know where he's stashed it.
- Stashed what?
- The treasure.
[Laera laughing]
You think this is funny?
Because I guarantee you...
[tense music]
...it's not.
What you call a treasure
was a box full
of deuterium tokens that wasn't
worth much to begin with.
- Heard enough.
- [tense music continues]
Ruby Ann doesn't want the money.
She wants The Rubble.
- [gun cocks]
- [Laera gasps]
- Calm down.
- [tense music continues]
Why are you making me do this?
You think I want to
leave Kessler an orphan?
I love that kid.
She's laughing at you.
[distant clanking continues]
- You hear that sound?
- Yeah.
Yeah, you think you should
do something about it?
I'm watching.
[distant clanking continues]
Go see what's making that sound.
- Where's the stash?
- She's stalling.
Would you shut up?
I don't remember asking
anyone's opinion.
I'm the captain.
This is my ship,
and this is your
last chance, Laera.
[distant
clanking continues]
- Where is it?
- [tense music continues]
I can't tell you
because it doesn't exist.
And if it did exist,
I wouldn't tell you.
[tense music continues]
You've just taken
it outta my hands.
Just remember, I didn't
want what happens next.
[tense music continues]
- [dramatic music]
- [Laera groaning]
- [door beeping]
- [hydraulics hissing]
[tense music]
You have one minute
to rethink your position.
- [countdown beeping]
- [air hissing]
It doesn't have to be this way.
[Laera struggles to breathe]
Think of Kessler!
With Soren on Reach,
who's gonna look after him?
- [Laera struggles to breathe]
- [tense music building]
- Just tell me what I wanna kn--
- [blood splattering]
[alarm blaring]
[sharp gasp]
[gentle music]
- [knife clinking on metal]
- [gentle music continues]
Where's Kessler?
- Kwan?
- [gentle music continues]
Kwan, I asked you a question--
- [Carina grunting]
- [Kwan yelling]
- [knife squelching]
- [tense music continues]
- [Kwan grunting]
- [body thudding]
[gentle music]
- I put him on the transport.
- I told you to stay with him.
- I couldn't.
- Why not?
'Cause then you'd be dead.
[gentle music continues]
[banging on door]
I need to speak
with Corporal Perez.
- She's not here.
- Where is she?
She's a good girl.
Yes, ma'am.
But I think
the devil follows you.
[gentle music]
What time is it?
- Late.
- Uh-huh.
[gentle music continues]
What am I doing here?
Do you remember
what we talked about?
You asked me to...
To don't let them
take me alive?
Yeah, that's right.
Today's the day?
Today's the day.
Thank God.
Ohh.
[gentle music continues]
There's someone here
to see you, Dad.
[gasping]
[gentle music continues]
Oh, Julia.
Julia.
[door opens loudly]
- [heavy footfalls]
- [Perez praying quietly]
Corporal Perez.
[praying softly in Spanish]
- [door closes]
- [Perez continues praying]
Never been in a church before,
have you?
Mnh-mnh.
People come here for comfort.
For protection.
For answers.
Do they find them?
Sometimes.
Do you?
On Sanctuary,
before the Covenant came, I...
I saw something... in the fog.
You mean the woman?
[labored breathing]
She's real, isn't she?
Yes.
I don't sleep.
I can't get that
sound outta my head.
This is a recording
from Sanctuary.
It's not just interference.
Not just a sound.
There's something underneath.
[recording playing Sangheili]
What is it?
[recording playing
Sangheili continues]
A prayer.
[recording playing
Sangheili continues]
I bring you blessings,
people of Reach.
[recording playing Sangheili]
[voice speaks Sangheili]
[Perez] Know that I've
come without mercy.
[voice speaks Sangheili]
[Perez] Without pity.
[Perez] Know that I am the
instrument of your extinction.
[voice speaks Sangheili]
[Perez] I bring this planet
forth as a burnt offering.
[tense music]
[voice speaks Sangheili]
[Perez] Upon this altar,
I place the head of the Demon.
[voice speaks Sangheili]
[Perez] May his blood mark
the way to the Sacred Ring
and consecrate the Great
Journey of my people.
[voice speaks Sangheili]
[Perez] Know that
I am Var 'Gatanai.
[voice speaks Sangheili]
[Perez] Know that I am...
Death.
[tense music]
They're already here...
aren't they?
[tense music continues]
[massive explosion]
[closing theme plays]
[signature theme plays]